{\rtf1\fbidis\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset178 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Consolas;}{\f3\fmodern\fprq1\fcharset0 Consolas;}{\f4\fmodern\fprq1 Consolas;}{\f5\fnil Consolas;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;\red106\green62\blue62;\red127\green0\blue85;\red0\green0\blue192;\red212\green212\blue212;\red232\green242\blue254;\red42\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.18362}{\*\mmathPr\mdispDef1\mwrapIndent1440 }\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\ltrpar\nowidctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs28\lang9 *) Run selenuim on different Brwoser:\b0\fs22\par
System.setproperty("key","value");\par
WebDriver driver = new nameDriver();\par
\par
\par
//key = webdriver.(name).driver\par
//value = path for driver\par
\par
*) Selenuim Methods:\par
\par
- driver.get(name driver);   ( to open a browser ) \par
- driver.getCurrenturl();    (to get a URL browser )\par
- driver.getTitle();         (to get a title browser)\par
- driver.getPageSource();    (to get a page source browser)\par
- driver.navigate.back();    (to back)\par
- driver.navigate.forward(); (to continuo)\par
- driver.navigate.refresh(); (to refresh the page)\par
- driver.manage().window().maximize();\par
- driver.quit();             (to close all pages that opened by seleinum)\par
- driver.close();            (to close the current page that opened by seleinum) \par
\par
\b\fs28 *) Selenuim Loactors:\b0\fs22\par
- driver.findElement(By.name("value")).sendKeys("something you want send");\par
- driver.findElement(By.id("value")).sendKeys("something you want send");\par
- driver.findElement(By.className("value")).click();\par
** if the class have a space the seleinum cant use that class.\par
** some classes that have same value in this case selenuim started from (top left).\par
\par
- driver.findElement(By.linkText("value")).click();\par
\par
\par
\b\fs28 *) Selenuim Xpath:\b0\fs22  ( used when we cant found attribut in the Element like id,name and class in this case we use Xpath)\par
** Xpath syntax: //tag name[@attribute='value']\lang1033\par
\lang9 - driver.findElement(By.xpath("//tag name[@attribute='value']")).sendKeys("value");\par
\par
* another syntax : //\f1\rtlch\lang1025 *\f0\ltrch\lang9 [@attribute='value']  (* mean that any tag in element work)\par
\par
** to ensure that the Xpath is correct we can use this code in console : $x("Xpath") then enter.\par
\par
** one of the onther ways to write xpath code is :\par
- Xpath syntax: //tagname[contains(@attribut,'value')]\par
- driver.findElement(By.xpath("//tag name[@contains(attribute,'value'))).sendKeys("value");\par
\par
- driver.findElement(By.xpath("//tag name[@attribute='value'][2]")).sendKeys("value");\par
** this code means that you should choice the second element in the page. \par
\par
\par
\b\fs28 *)\b0\fs22  \b\fs28 Selenuim CSS:\b0\fs22  ( the same use of the Xpath )\par
** CSS syntax: tag name[attribute='value']\par
- driver.findElement(By.cssSelector("tagname[attribute='value']")).sendKeys("value");\par
\par
** CSS syntax for ID : tag name#value or #value      (# mean ID)\par
-  driver.findElement(By.cssSelector("tagname#value")).sendKeys("value");\par
\par
\par
** CSS syntax for class name : tag name.value or .value  (. mean class)\par
-  driver.findElement(By.cssSelector("tagname.value")).sendKeys("value");\par
\par
** to ensure that the CSS is correct we can use this code in console : $$("CSS") then enter.\par
\par
\b\fs28 *) Web Element: \b0\fs22 ( for loop // more than one test case )\par
- syntax: WebElement NameVariable = value ;\par
\par
Ex:     WebElement EmailButton = driver.findElement(By.id("email"));\par
        EmailButton.sendKeys("Ahmad"); \par
\par
\b\fs28 *) Drop down:\par
1)\b0\fs22  \b\fs28 Static Drop down \b0\fs22 ( start with tag name "Select" ) \par
- syntax: WebElement 1Name = driver.findElement(By.elementName("Value"));\par
          Select 2Name = new Select(1Name);\par
          2Name.selectByIndex(5);\par
          2Name.selectByValue("15");\par
\b\fs28 2) Dynamic Drop down \b0\fs22 ( start with any tag name Expact "Select")\par
\par
\b\fs28 *) Radio Buttons and Check Boxes:\par
\b0\fs22 - WebElememt NameValue = driver.findElement(By.id("Value"));\par
  NameValue.click();\par
  System.out.printIn(NameValue.IsSelected());   (print true or false)\par
\par
** IsSelected();  (Its a bool method return true or false// if Radio Buttons selected return true if not false \par
\par
\par
\b\fs28 *) WebElements : \b0\fs22 a list of elements that have the same Xpath.\par
syntax :  List <WebElement> Name = driver.findElements(By.xpath("Xpath")); \tab\par
\tab\tab Name.get(int).click();\par
\par
other way : driver.findElements(By.xpath("xpath")).get(int).click();\par
\par
\par
** size(); to know how much elements that have the same xpath. \par
syntax : driver.findElements(By.xpath("Xpath")).size();\par
\par
\b\fs28 *) JavaScript Alerts:\par
\b0\fs22 - theres three types of alerts \par
1) Alert Box: it have one button only (ok).\par
2) confirm Box: it have two buttons (ok) and (cancle).\par
3) Prompt Box: it have two buttons (ok) and (cancle) with inputtext.\par
\par
** we can deal with javascript alerts by method called switch();\par
Ex: driver.findElement(By.xpath("//input[@value='prompt box']")).click();\par
\tab\tab driver.switchTo().alert().sendKeys("Hi");\par
\tab\tab driver.switchTo().alert().dismiss(); \par
                driver.switchTo().alert().accept();\par
 \par
\b\fs28 *) isDisplayed(); Method:\par
\b0\fs22 - we can use this method to ensure if button active (can use it) or not.\par
- its return true or false (boolean).\par
syntax: System.out.println(driver.findElement(By.id("flight-returning-flp")).isDisplayed());\par
\par
\b\fs28 *) Mouse Actions : \b0\fs22 ita a method allow us to make test causes easly by class calld "Actions".\par
syntax:     WebElement Text = driver.findElement(By.id("value"));\par
            Actions action = new Actions(driver);\par
\tab     action.moveToElement(Text).click().sendKeys("ahmad").build().perform();\par
\par
** we can use keybord on selenium by keyDown or keyUp or sendkeys(keys.(shift, tab...)):\par
- syntax:   WebElement Text = driver.findElement(By.id("value"));\par
\tab     Actions action = new Actions(driver);\par
\tab     action.moveToElement(Text).click().keyDown(Keys.SHIFT).sendKeys("ahmad").build().perform(); (to writ word in capital latter)\par
            or \par
            Text.sendkeys(keys.tab..);\par
\par
\b\fs28 *) Move to new window (Switch to):\b0\fs22 (How to Switch to a child Window?)\par
- theres a method called windowhandled(); to give the id of the currnt window.\par
- Iterator: its a tool that can move from the main page (parent) to another page (chaild).\par
- SwitchTo(): to move from the parent page to the chaild page .\par
- syntax:       Set <String> Handl = driver.getWindowHandles();\par
\tab\tab Iterator <String> Id = Handl.iterator();\par
\tab\tab String parent = Id.next();\par
\tab\tab String chalid = Id.next();\par
\tab\tab driver.switchTo().window(chalid);\par
\par
\b\fs28 *) Wait Method: \par
\b0\fs22 theres three typies of Wait methods:\par
1) Thread sleep.\par
syntax: Thread.sleep(number);\par
\par
2) Implicitly Wait.\par
syntax: driver.manage().timeouts().implicitlyWait(20, TimeUnit.SECONDS);\par
\par
3)Explicit wait.\par
\par
syntax:\par
        WebDriverWait wait = new WebDriverWait(driver,20);\par
        wait.until(ExpectedConditions.elementToBeClickable(driver.findElement(By.name("value"))));\par
\par
Summary: \par
          Thread sleep -->     Java       Static    \par
          Implicitly Wait      Selenuim   dynamic    global\par
          Explicit wait -->    Selenuim    dynamic    private\par
          \par
\b\fs28 *) Limiting Web Driver: \b0\fs22 to count links in some page.\par
syntax: WebElement Links = driver.findElement(By.className("orb-footer-primary-links"));\par
        System.out.println(Links.findElements(By.tagName("a")).size());\par
\par
\b\fs28 *) Switch to frame By Id, Name and Web Element:\par
\b0\fs22 - if the page have frame we cant access to this frame without this method SwitchTo();\par
** if the frame have id or name we can switch by frame(String).\par
\par
syntax:   WebElement frame = driver.findElement(By.xpath("//iframe[@id='a077aa5e']"));\par
          driver.switchTo().frame(frame);\par
          or\par
          driver.switchTo().frame("id" or "name");\par
\par
** if the frame have no id or name we can switch by frame(String).\par
\par
\b\fs28 *) Switch to frame by index: \b0\fs22 (we use this way when we dont found id or name in frame)\par
** we use this code to know the numbers of frame in pages:\par
int count = (driver.findElements(By.tagName("iframe")).size());\par
- if the number of frame = 1 then the frame = 0\par
- if the number of frame > 1 then use for loop :(we use this code to know number of frame )\par
\par
                int count = (driver.findElements(By.tagName("iframe")).size());\par
\tab\tab for (int i=0; i<count; i++)\par
\tab\tab\{\par
\tab\tab\tab driver.switchTo().frame(i);\par
\tab\tab\tab int yes = driver.findElements(By.xpath("//img[@src='Jmeter720.png']")).size();\par
\tab\tab\tab System.out.println(yes);\par
\tab\tab\tab driver.switchTo().defaultContent();\par
\tab\tab\}\par
after we know the number of frame then we can start work.\tab\tab\par
\par
\b\fs28 *) ByAll, By Id Or Name:\par
\b0\fs22 1) ByAll: to add one or more locators in the code.\par
syntax: driver.findElement(new ByAll(By.id("gh-ac"), By.xpath("//input[@type='text']"))).sendKeys("Sport");\par
\par
2) ByIDorName: add email or id in the same code.\par
syntax: driver.findElement(new ByIdOrName("gh-ac")).sendKeys("Hi");\par
\par
\b\fs28 *) Upload File by selenium:\par
\b0\fs22\par
driver.findElement(By.id("value")).sendKeys("copy the xpath of the file");\par
\par
*) send date to calender:\par
\par
- JavascriptExecutor jr = ((JavascriptExecutor) driver);\par
  jr.executeScript("arguments[0].setAttribute('value' , '"+"14-11-2019"+"'), date");\par
\par
\b\fs28 *) Calender Hack:  \par
\par
\b0\f2\fs22 WebElement date = driver.findElement(By.\i id\i0 ("qf-0q-localised-check-in"));\par
JavascriptExecutor js = ((JavascriptExecutor ) driver);\par
js.executeScript("arguments[0].setAttribute('value','"+"2020/12/05"+"');", date);\par
        \par
\f0\par
\b\fs28 *) ChromeOptions:\par
- to solve the SSL certificates problem we use Options method.\par
\b0\fs22\lang1033 Syntax: \par

\pard\ltrpar\widctlpar\cf1\f3\fs20 ChromeOptions \cf2 option\cf1  = \cf3\b new\cf1\b0  ChromeOptions();\cf0\par

\pard\ltrpar\nowidctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf2 option\cf1 .setCapability(CapabilityType.\cf4\b\i ACCEPT_SSL_CERTS\cf1\b0\i0 , \cf3\b true\cf1\b0 );\par
\cf0\f0\fs22\par
\b\fs28 - to solve the \highlight5\f3 INSECURE \highlight0\f0\lang9 problem we use Options method.\par

\pard\ltrpar\widctlpar\cf1\b0\f3\fs20\lang1033 ChromeOptions \cf2 option\cf1  = \cf3\b new\cf1\b0  ChromeOptions();\cf0\par

\pard\ltrpar\nowidctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf2\highlight6 option\cf1 .setCapability(CapabilityType.\cf4\highlight5\b\i ACCEPT_INSECURE_CERTS\cf1\highlight6\b0\i0 , \cf3\b true\cf1\b0 );\cf4\highlight5\b\i\fs22  \par
\b0\i0\par
\b\fs28 -\cf0\highlight0\f0  to add the private browser:\par
\b0\fs22 Syntax:.\par

\pard\ltrpar\widctlpar\cf1\f3\fs20 ChromeOptions \cf2 option\cf1  = \cf3\b new\cf1\b0  ChromeOptions();\cf0\par

\pard\ltrpar\nowidctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf2\highlight5 option\cf1\highlight6 .addArguments(\cf7 "--incognito"\cf1 );\par
\par
*) To find element by text:\par
Syntax: \cf2 driver\cf1 .findElement(By.\highlight5 xpath(\f4\ldblquote\f3 //*[text()=\f4\rquote\f3 value\f4\rquote\f3 ]\f4\rdblquote\f3 ).click;\par
\i Or \par
\i0 Syntax: \cf2\highlight6 driver\cf1 .findElement(By.\highlight5 xpath(\f4\ldblquote\f3 //*[contains(text(),\f4\rquote\f3 value\f4\rquote\f3 )])\f4\rdblquote\f3 ).click;\par
\par
\highlight6 *) To get \highlight5 Attribute value:\par
- we use this method getAttribute().\par

\pard\ltrpar\widctlpar Syntax:\par
\par
\cf2\highlight0 driver\cf1 .findElement(By.\i linkText\i0 (\cf7 "value"\cf1 )).\highlight5 getAttribute\highlight0 (\cf7 "value"\cf1 );\par
\par
\par
\b\fs32 Extent Report:\par
\par

\pard\ltrpar\cf0\b0\f2\fs20 ExtentReports\f5  extent; \par
ExtentTest test;\cf1\b\f3\fs32\par
-\cf0  \b0\i\f5\fs20 @BeforeSuite\i0\par
\tab public void StartedTesting()\par
\tab\{\par
\tab\tab extent = new ExtentReports("D:\\\\Users\\\\ahmad\\\\eclipse-workspace                    {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "\\\\\\\\Qiotic_Projects\\\\\\\\TestReport\\\\\\\\index.html"}}{\fldrslt{\\\\Qiotic_Projects\\\\TestReport\\\\index.html\ul0\cf0}}}}\f5\fs20 ", true);\par
\tab\tab extent.addSystemInfo("ProjectName", "MedicalHub");\par
\tab\tab extent.addSystemInfo("OS", "Windows");\par
\tab\tab extent.addSystemInfo("Tester","Ahmad");\par
\tab\tab extent.addSystemInfo("TestFramwork", "TestNG");\par
\tab\}\par
\tab\par
\f2    \i\f5 @AfterSuite\i0\par
\tab public void FinishedTesing()\par
\tab\{\par
\tab\tab extent.flush();\par

\pard\ltrpar\widctlpar\tab\}\par
\f2  \f5\par

\pard\ltrpar\i\f2   @BeforeMethod\i0\f5\par
\tab public void setuo(Method method) throws ATUTestRecorderException\par
\tab\{\par

\pard\ltrpar\widctlpar\tab\tab test = extent.startTest(method.getName());\par
\f2        \}\f3\par

\pard\ltrpar  \f5\par
\i @AfterMethod\i0\par
\tab public void teardown(ITestResult result) throws \f2   \f5 ATUTestRecorderException\par
\tab\{\par
\tab\tab\par
\tab\tab recorder.stop();\par
\tab\tab if (result.getStatus() == ITestResult.\b\i SUCCESS\b0\i0 )\par
\tab\tab\{\par
\tab\tab\tab test.log(\i LogStatus\i0 .\b\i PASS\b0\i0 , "Test Pass");\par
\tab\tab\} \par
\tab\tab else if (result.getStatus() == ITestResult.\b\i FAILURE\b0\i0 )\par
\tab\tab\{\par
\tab\tab\tab test.log(\i LogStatus\i0 .\b\i FAIL\b0\i0 , "Test Fail");\par
\tab\tab\}\par
\tab\tab else \par
\tab\tab\tab test.log(\i LogStatus\i0 .\b\i SKIP\b0\i0 , "Test Skipped");\par
\tab\tab\par
\tab\tab driver.quit();\par
\tab\}\par
\tab\par

\pard\ltrpar\widctlpar\tab\f3\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\cf1\par
\par
\b\fs28 Eng. Hatem Collections: \par
\b0\fs20\par
{\cf0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://github.com/hat2003/Hatem_Selenium-Collections }}{\fldrslt{https://github.com/hat2003/Hatem_Selenium-Collections\ul0\cf0}}}}\f3\fs20\par
\cf0\par
\cf1\tab\tab\cf0\par

\pard\ltrpar\nowidctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf1\highlight6\par
\par
\par
\par
\cf0\highlight0\f0\fs22\lang9\par
}
 